[Music]
good morning welcome to breakfast with
naga manchetti and charlie state our
headlines today as 10 million people
receive their first jab across the uk
trials are taking place to see whether
it's safe to have different vaccines for
the first and second dose
good morning from epsom racecourse
temporarily transformed into a mass
vaccination center we are live here all
morning
looking at how the vaccination program
is being rolled out
on the ground nationwide applause
in honor of captain sir tom moore his
family say they were incredibly touched
good morning a fair price for energy or
pushing people into poverty
charities have told breakfast they're
worried about the impact of rising fuel
bills
for millions of households good morning
the premier league champions liverpool
lose at home again
this time they're beaten by a brilliant
brighton at anfield in another
of this season's big surprises
good morning today again we've got some
rain sleet and hill snow across the
northern half of the country
but it's in the south we've got some
rain moving north through the day
but as we head into the weekend it's
going to turn colder for us all with
more of us seeing some snow
i'll have all the details later in the
programme
good morning it's thursday the 4th of
february our top story is that a life
beyond lockdown
seems a step closer after the chief
medical advisor chris witte announced
the uk was
past the peak of the coronavirus
outbreak there was caution though as he
warned that case numbers remain
very high the news came after the prime
minister said more than 10 million
people have now received a first jab of
a vaccine
across the uk the government is aiming
to offer a first dose to 15 million of
the most vulnerable people by
mid-february
the prime minister said that so far in
england almost 90 percent
of everyone aged over 75 has received an
initial dose
there were 1 300
new deaths reported in the latest
24-hour period
that's people who died within four weeks
of a positive covert 19
test um now having had their first jabs
across the uk the vaccination rollout is
well underway
but could mixing doses of the oxford
astrazeneca and pfizer biontech vaccines
offer the body even more chances to
develop defenses against the virus
that's what's behind a new trial that's
been unveiled today the study will
involve
820 volunteers none of whom have yet had
the vaccine
all will be aged 50 or older part of the
group to be vaccinated in the next
priority wave the trial will run
initially at eight sites across england
what we're doing here is looking to see
how well people's immune systems respond
if you give
first dates with one copy vaccine second
dose with another
and the reason why to do that is to
build flexibility into the uk
immunization schedule for covert
vaccines
and even globally it makes it much
easier to administer these vaccines
if you don't have to worry too much
about always giving the second
dose the same as the first dose and that
also brings in resilience into the
immunization schedule
if there would be supply problems with
one of the vaccines then
you can be then then you're protected
against that by being able to immunize
with
the other vaccine as an alternative
researchers believe
there are good reasons to think it may
work for example
exactly this process was used in the
fight against ebola
introducing flexibility in the
vaccination program could also help
should there be disruption to vaccine
supplies and it may be of huge benefit
to developing countries that have yet to
get vaccination programs up and running
the first results should be known by the
early summer dominic hughes bbc news
well there are now more than fifteen
hundred sites in england offering
coronavirus
vaccinations as the mass immunization
program continues to accelerate there
are now nearly 90 large-scale
vaccination centers
after another 39 opening today people
can also
access the jobs at high street
pharmacies and at gp and hospital hubs
crystal palace football club is the
latest to open its gates to the public
the uk and eu have said they will work
hard to resolve concerns about the
impact of the brexit trade deal on
northern ireland
since the start of the year supermarkets
have struggled with supplies and border
checks had to be suspended last week
when staff were threatened talks last
night were described as constructive
the family of captain sir tom moore said
they were incredibly touched by people
taking part in a nationwide applause
in his memory last night the prime
minister led the tributes to the 100
year old fundraiser who died with
coronavirus on tuesday
we should warn you this report from john
mcguire does contain some flash
photography from the start
captain to tom moore's home has seen
some spine tingling moments in recent
months
his hundredth lap his 100th birthday
and last night his family joined the
nation to applaud
his extraordinary achievements
staff at bedford hospital showed their
appreciation for the man they said
they'd been immensely privileged to care
for
in his last days
his name will always be synonymous with
the nhs
at western hospital on merseyside they
described him
as their hero
he touched people in every part of our
society
and in cities across the uk they took a
minute
to say thank you
the captain tom train pulled into
london's paddington
station as staff formed a guard of honor
[Applause]
so how should he be more permanently
remembered
the prime minister was asked at the
downing street covid press conference
on the issue of a uh a a statue for for
captain domore
a public memorial of some kind of
captain tom uh i'm absolutely uh
of course opened up know that everybody
uh that's the kind of thing that people
would want to support and
uh will be uh working with his family to
uh
to to see what they feel is most
appropriate and
uh and be taking that forward
the six o'clock kickoff allowed for
manchester city and burnley footballers
to join in
one of his most cherished accolades was
being named honorary colonel
at the army foundation college in
harrogate
[Applause]
and serving soldiers of the royal irish
regiment
honoured a former soldier in the loudest
way they could
back in his home village in bedfordshire
the applause
was not only for captain sir tom but
also the family that had supported him
throughout his endeavors he may be gone
but will never be forgotten john mcguire
bbc news
bedfordshire
time now is seven minutes past six just
want to show you these images of the
white cliffs of dover
yes this footage captured by a local
fisherman shows chunks of the famous
chalk
all line cliffs crumbling and then
falling into the english channel
dave waterfield said he heard another
crack
and then started filming and seconds
later the ground at the top
started to buckle and then as you can
see
entire section started to give way
i think we need to wait for it don't we
there's more coming apparently
so a study carried out in 2016 found
that the cliffs are retreating
oh so i'm sorry
i didn't think it would be that dramatic
yeah so this study
in 2016 found the cliffs are retreating
by up to 12 inches
a year because of coastal erosion which
kind of it makes sense doesn't it you
know when we look at various parts of
the country and you see how things have
eroded you know what that reminded me of
i was very lucky at one point
to be in antarctica and see you know
when the um
ice ledges break it's called carving
and that just looked exactly like that
toppling into the water below yeah and
the noise i mean i can't imagine the
noise is
it's like thunder all around you it's
one of those it's one of those stories
quite often in relation to households
that live very close to
the water's edge don't and you say every
year it's getting closer you don't
actually
often see the moment where it crumbles
for obvious reasons because no one is
actually filming
when it happens but you saw it they must
have expected it and anyway those
pictures are great
[Music]
see the headlines as they happen and
watch bbc news live in the app and get
the full story with bbc dot co dot uk
forward slash news follow the story for
all the latest
with bbc news